# ESP32 AutomatedHouse
This is a repository containing documentation and code for a house mockup that simulates an automated house. The house was constructed from foam board and was 2'x2'x1' in size. An ESP32 Microcontroller was used along with a switch, a button, LEDs, sensors, an LCD, an OLED, a microSD module and various other components. The code for the house uses FreeRTOS tasks and tools including mutexes and queues. We also use SPI and I2C to communicate with various modules.<br />
Two major systems of note are the garage door and the alarm system.<br />
**Garage Door**<br />
Located at the front of the house is the garage which features two IR sensors, a servor, a button, and a motor. The IR sensors can detect the presence of a car inside or outside using interrupts. If a car is detected outside, the servo is activated which opens the garage door. If a car is detected inside, the garage closes. Additionally, the button can control the door manually. If an IR sensor or the button interrupts the door while it is opening or closing, it is able to reverse for the appropriate amount of time to revert to its intial state (i.e. if it is opening for .4 seconds and the button is pressed, it closes for .4 seconds to revert back to the closed state).<br />
**Alarm System**<br />
The house features a front door with a magnet attached to it. The door frame has a magnet sensor, so that when the front door is closed, the sensor detects a magnet, and we know that the door is closed. Otherwise, we know it's open. Upon startup, the alarm system is initially in the INACTIVE mode. If the button is long-pressed, the alarm becomes ACTIVE. If in the Active state and the door is opened, the alarm system status becomes INTRUDER. When in INTRUDER mode, the buzzer runs in 1-second intervals using software timers. The buzzer deactivates after 2 minutes of running. Each alarm state also has its corresponding RGB LED color.<br />
**OLED and LCD**<br />
There are various sensors and systems in the automated house including ones that report the temperature, humidity, smoke levels, door status, etc. The OLED and LCD screens report the status of these modules and systems in live time.
